I want to create a fighting area generator.
This area will be displayed on font glyph based terminal renderer like the other menu.
Each area will always be of size 60x60.
Each glyph will have a font color and a char associated to it when rendering it.
Also each glyph will be associated with a type of terrain :
- exit, for runaway, always displayed with `⎆`
- hard obstacle (wall, trees, rock) : need to be by passed, block range weapon view
- soft obstacle (bush, sand, ...) : can move across but slower
- treacherous terrain (slope, mud, ...) : can move across but risk of falling
- dangerous terrain (fireplace, bambles, ...) : can move across but risk of wound
- free space : can freely move accross
The goal of the generator is to create areas that looks good/coherent.
The generator will have multiple mode to be able to create area for various context (forest, street, building interior, mountain, ...).
The mode should be abstract so they can be reusable for multiple context. For example, does not create "forest" mode but a "noisy" mode filling the area with noisely place obstacle that could be used for forest but also swamp, rocky area, ...
You can also have a "geometric" mode filling an area with geometric shaped obstacle like square and circle, this shape could representating table/columns/furniture of any kind of interior. As the render is only based on font glyphs, an area will be abstract enough to have various interpretations.
Also take into account the general structure of the area when making the mode (rooms/doors like structure, free space structure, corridor structurs, ...)
Each mode will need to generate a new random area each time it is called.
Each mode can have some specific properties that affect its procedural generation (like density, char mapping, ...).
An exit should aways be put around the bottom center of the area.
You need to be sure the area was no deadend, it should ne possible to go from each movable tiles (not hard obstacle) to the exit tile.
The A* functions can be used to check it if needed.
A space of round 3*10 dimensions on both the top center and top bottom should be reserved to put the player party member and ennemies, so it should not contains obstacle.